# Class: Gem::PackageTask
**Inherits:** Rake::PackageTask
    

Create a package based upon a Gem::Specification.  Gem packages, as well as
zip files and tar/gzipped packages can be produced by this task.

In addition to the Rake targets generated by Rake::PackageTask, a
Gem::PackageTask will also generate the following tasks:

**"*package_dir*/*name*-*version*.gem"**
:   Create a RubyGems package with the given name and version.


Example using a Gem::Specification:

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'rubygems/package_task'

    spec = Gem::Specification.new do |s|
      s.summary = "Ruby based make-like utility."
      s.name = 'rake'
      s.version = PKG_VERSION
      s.requirements << 'none'
      s.files = PKG_FILES
      s.description = <<-EOF
    Rake is a Make-like program implemented in Ruby. Tasks
    and dependencies are specified in standard Ruby syntax.
      EOF
    end

    Gem::PackageTask.new(spec) do |pkg|
      pkg.need_zip = true
      pkg.need_tar = true
    end


# Attributes
## gem_spec[RW] [](#attribute-i-gem_spec)
Ruby Gem::Specification containing the metadata for this package.  The name,
version and package_files are automatically determined from the gemspec and
don't need to be explicitly provided.


#Instance Methods
## define() [](#method-i-define)
Create the Rake tasks and actions specified by this Gem::PackageTask.
(`define` is automatically called if a block is given to `new`).

## init(gem) [](#method-i-init)
Initialization tasks without the "yield self" or define operations.

## initialize(gem_spec) [](#method-i-initialize)
Create a Gem Package task library.  Automatically define the gem if a block is
given.  If no block is supplied, then #define needs to be called to define the
task.

**@return** [PackageTask] a new instance of PackageTask

**@yield** [_self] 

**@yieldparam** [Gem::PackageTask] the object that the method was called on

